{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f10\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05000000000000000000}Wingdings;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
\snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid942529\rsid1973981\rsid5327098\rsid5789970}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.8026;}{\info{\operator Bruce}{\creatim\yr2006\mo7\dy12\hr22\min58}{\revtim\yr2006\mo7\dy12\hr23\min13}{\version3}
{\edmins15}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords343}{\nofchars1960}{\nofcharsws2299}{\vern24609}{\*\password 00000000}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot942529 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}
\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 Welcome to this freeware multivariate statistics package. The software has been developed in 
{\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname place}}Delphi{\*\xmlclose}, using a Microsoft Access database and Microsoft Excel for data import and export. The software is installed with a legal copy of the Microsoft Jet eng
ine so that users do not need to have Microsoft Access installed on their computers.
\par 
\par Users may choose which of the following multivariate statistical processes to apply to their data:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li780\ri0\nowidctlpar\tx780\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin780\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af10 \ltrch\fcs0 \f10\insrsid942529 \'a7\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 Correspondence analysis
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li780\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin780\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af10 \ltrch\fcs0 \f10\insrsid942529 \'a7\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529\charrsid942529 Simultaneous}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 
\insrsid942529  R- and Q- mode components analysis (based on either correlation or covariance matrices)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af10 \ltrch\fcs0 \f10\insrsid942529 \'a7\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 Principal components analysis (based on either correlation or covariance matrices)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af10 \ltrch\fcs0 \f10\insrsid942529 \'a7\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 Discriminant function analysis
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 
\par The software provides a number of graphs, together with classical and robust multivariate techniques, which are very useful in Exploratory Data Analysis.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid1973981 
 Note that nomenclature used throughout the graphical user interface follows standard terminology in the earth sciences, rather than that of statistics. For instance, geological samples 
might be termed specimens in statistics whereas statistical samples are often termed groups in the earth sciences}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid5327098 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid1973981 
\par A number of test data sets, primarily from the excellent text book by John C Davis, have been provided so that users may experiment with the different techniques. In all cases, one needs to define a data definition 
spreadsheet (the example file is called CoranDefinitions.xls) which defines which variables are to be used and which columns they are to be taken from. All data are imported from Microsoft Excel
 spreadsheets. In cases where closure is an issue, one is given the option to log ratio transform one\rquote s data at input. 
\par 
\par Please note that this software can not process negative values. If you have data of this kind (for instance certain isotope ratios), you will need to add some co
nstant to all records in a new column of the spreadsheet. Users should also be very aware that missing values for some samples and variables can significantly distort the results of any multivariate analysis.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid942529 
\par This software is intended as a work in progress, so feedback from users would be much appreciated, in particular suggestions for improvements. Please send such details to {\*\xmlopen\xmlns1{\factoidname PersonName}}bruce.eglington@usask.ca{\*\xmlclose}

\par 
\par Happy and productive computing
\par 
\par Dr Bruce Eglington
\par 10 July 2006
\par 
\par 
\par }}